.\" Seed Test Suite - Reflect Command Man Page
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Mustard Seed Networks. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH SEEDTEST-REFLECT 1 "December 2025" "Seed Test Suite 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
seedtest reflect \- start packet reflector for network testing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seedtest reflect
.B \-i
.I interface
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B reflect
command starts a high-performance packet reflector on the specified network
interface. The reflector receives test packets and returns them to the sender,
enabling round-trip measurements for network benchmarking.
.PP
Reflector mode is required at the far end of a test path. The reflector
recognizes test signatures from various sources and echoes packets back
with appropriate modifications for accurate timing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interface " " \fIname\fR
Network interface to use for reflection.
.B Required.
.TP
.BR \-\-mode " " \fImode\fR
Dataplane mode:
.B af_packet
(default, 1-2 Mpps),
.B af_xdp
(5-10 Mpps, requires kernel 5.x+),
.B dpdk
(15-40+ Mpps, requires DPDK).
.TP
.BR \-\-profile " " \fIname\fR
Signature profile to use:
.B netally
(NetAlly/ITO signatures),
.B msn
(Mustard Seed signatures),
.B all
(all signatures, default),
.B custom
(manual configuration).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIport\fR
UDP port for control plane (default: 3842).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-\-stats\-interval " " \fIseconds\fR
Statistics display interval (default: 1).
.SH PERFORMANCE
Reflector performance depends on the dataplane mode:
.TP
.B AF_PACKET
Standard Linux packet sockets. Universal compatibility. Typically 1-2 Mpps.
.TP
.B AF_XDP
Linux kernel bypass using XDP. Requires kernel 5.x+ and driver support.
Typically 5-10 Mpps with zero-copy drivers.
.TP
.B DPDK
Full userspace networking via Data Plane Development Kit. Requires DPDK
libraries and interface binding. Maximum performance: 15-40+ Mpps.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start basic reflector:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest reflect -i eth0
.RE
.fi
.PP
High-performance AF_XDP reflector:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest reflect -i eth0 --mode af_xdp
.RE
.fi
.PP
Reflector with specific signature profile:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest reflect -i eth0 --profile netally
.RE
.fi
.PP
Verbose mode with 5-second stats:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest reflect -i eth0 -v --stats-interval 5
.RE
.fi
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
.TP
.B Permission denied
Reflector requires root privileges for raw socket access. Run with sudo.
.TP
.B Interface not found
Verify interface exists with
.BR "ip link show" .
.TP
.B AF_XDP not available
Check kernel version (need 5.x+) and driver XDP support. Fall back to af_packet.
.TP
.B Low performance
Check for interrupt coalescing, ensure XDP mode if available, verify no
other processes are using the interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR seedtest (1),
.BR seedtest-test (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mustard Seed Networks <support@mustardseednetworks.com>
