.\" Seed Test Suite - Web Command Man Page
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Mustard Seed Networks. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH SEEDTEST-WEB 1 "December 2025" "Seed Test Suite 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
seedtest web \- start web interface server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seedtest web
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B web
command starts a web server providing a graphical interface for controlling
Seed Test Suite. The web interface allows configuration, test execution, and
results visualization through a browser.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIport\fR
HTTP server port. Default: 8080.
.TP
.BR \-\-bind " " \fIaddress\fR
Bind address. Default: 0.0.0.0 (all interfaces).
.TP
.BR \-\-https
Enable HTTPS (requires certificate).
.TP
.BR \-\-cert " " \fIpath\fR
Path to TLS certificate file.
.TP
.BR \-\-key " " \fIpath\fR
Path to TLS key file.
.TP
.BR \-\-api\-only
Start API server only, no static web UI.
.SH WEB INTERFACE FEATURES
.TP
.B Dashboard
Real-time display of packet statistics, rates, and test status.
.TP
.B Settings
Configure mode (reflector/test master), interface selection, and test parameters.
.TP
.B Help
Comprehensive help system with test documentation, tutorials, and glossary.
.TP
.B Results
Historical test results with visualization.
.SH API ENDPOINTS
.TP
.B GET /api/interfaces
List available network interfaces.
.TP
.B GET /api/stats
Current statistics and status.
.TP
.B POST /api/test/start
Start a test run.
.TP
.B POST /api/test/stop
Stop running test.
.TP
.B GET /api/results
Retrieve test results.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start web interface on default port:
.PP
.nf
.RS
seedtest web
.RE
.fi
.PP
Start on custom port:
.PP
.nf
.RS
seedtest web -p 9090
.RE
.fi
.PP
Start with HTTPS:
.PP
.nf
.RS
seedtest web --https --cert /etc/ssl/cert.pem --key /etc/ssl/key.pem
.RE
.fi
.PP
Then open browser to: http://localhost:8080
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR seedtest (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mustard Seed Networks <support@mustardseednetworks.com>
