.\" Seed Test Suite - Test Command Man Page
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Mustard Seed Networks. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH SEEDTEST-TEST 1 "December 2025" "Seed Test Suite 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
seedtest test \- execute network performance tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seedtest test
.B \-i
.I interface
.B \-t
.I test-type
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B test
command executes network performance tests against a remote reflector endpoint.
Multiple test methodologies are supported including RFC 2544, Y.1564, RFC 2889,
RFC 6349, Y.1731, MEF, and TSN standards.
.PP
A reflector must be running at the far end of the test path. See
.BR seedtest-reflect (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Required Options
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interface " " \fIname\fR
Network interface to use for testing.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-test " " \fItype\fR
Test type to execute. See TESTS section below.
.SS Test Parameters
.TP
.BR \-\-target " " \fIip\fR
Target IP address (for Layer 3 tests). Default: auto-discover via ARP.
.TP
.BR \-\-frame\-sizes " " \fIsizes\fR
Comma-separated frame sizes in bytes. Default: 64,128,256,512,1024,1280,1518.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-duration " " \fIseconds\fR
Test duration per trial. Default: 60.
.TP
.BR \-\-trials " " \fIn\fR
Number of trials per frame size. Default: 1.
.TP
.BR \-\-threshold " " \fIpercent\fR
Acceptable packet loss threshold. Default: 0.0.
.SS Y.1564/MEF Parameters
.TP
.BR \-\-cir " " \fIMbps\fR
Committed Information Rate.
.B Required for Y.1564 and MEF tests.
.TP
.BR \-\-eir " " \fIMbps\fR
Excess Information Rate. Default: 0.
.TP
.BR \-\-cbs " " \fIbytes\fR
Committed Burst Size.
.TP
.BR \-\-fd\-threshold " " \fIms\fR
Frame delay threshold. Default: 10.
.TP
.BR \-\-fdv\-threshold " " \fIms\fR
Frame delay variation threshold. Default: 5.
.TP
.BR \-\-flr\-threshold " " \fIpercent\fR
Frame loss ratio threshold. Default: 0.001.
.SS Output Options
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIformat\fR
Output format:
.B text
(default),
.B json,
.B csv,
.B xml.
.TP
.BR \-\-output\-file " " \fIpath\fR
Write results to file.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH TESTS
.SS RFC 2544 Tests
.TP
.B throughput
Find maximum forwarding rate with zero packet loss. Uses binary search
algorithm to converge on the maximum lossless rate.
.TP
.B latency
Measure round-trip delay at a specified offered load. Tests each frame
size at the throughput rate.
.TP
.B frame_loss
Measure packet loss percentage at various load levels (10%, 20%, ... 100%).
.TP
.B back_to_back
Determine maximum burst length (back-to-back frames) that can be
transmitted without loss.
.TP
.B system_recovery
Measure recovery time after an overload condition.
.TP
.B reset
Measure device restart time (power reset, warm reset).
.SS Y.1564 EtherSAM Tests
.TP
.B y1564_config
Service Configuration Test. Validates service at 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%
of CIR to ensure bandwidth profiles work correctly.
.TP
.B y1564_performance
Service Performance Test. Extended duration test at full CIR to verify
sustained performance.
.TP
.B y1564_full
Complete Service Activation Test. Runs both configuration and performance
tests in sequence.
.SS RFC 2889 Switch Tests
.TP
.B forwarding
Aggregate forwarding rate across multiple ports.
.TP
.B address_cache
MAC address table capacity test.
.TP
.B learning_rate
MAC address learning speed test.
.TP
.B broadcast
Broadcast frame handling test.
.TP
.B congestion
Congestion control and backpressure test.
.SS RFC 6349 TCP Tests
.TP
.B tcp_throughput
Real TCP throughput with Bandwidth-Delay Product optimization.
.TP
.B path_analysis
Path characterization including RTT, bottleneck bandwidth, and capacity.
.SS Y.1731 OAM Tests
.TP
.B frame_delay
Delay Measurement using DMM/DMR frames.
.TP
.B y1731_frame_loss
Loss Measurement using LMM/LMR frames.
.TP
.B synthetic_loss
Synthetic Loss Measurement using SLM/SLR frames.
.TP
.B loopback
Connectivity test using LBM/LBR frames.
.SS MEF Service Tests
.TP
.B mef_config
MEF service configuration validation.
.TP
.B mef_performance
MEF extended performance test.
.TP
.B mef_full
Complete MEF validation suite.
.SS TSN Tests (IEEE 802.1Qbv)
.TP
.B gate_timing
Time-Aware Shaper gate timing accuracy.
.TP
.B traffic_isolation
Traffic class isolation verification.
.TP
.B scheduled_latency
Deterministic latency validation.
.TP
.B tsn_full
Complete TSN validation suite.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Basic throughput test:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest test -i eth0 -t throughput
.RE
.fi
.PP
Custom frame sizes and duration:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest test -i eth0 -t throughput --frame-sizes 64,512,1518 -d 30
.RE
.fi
.PP
Y.1564 service activation for 100 Mbps service:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest test -i eth0 -t y1564_full --cir 100
.RE
.fi
.PP
Export results to JSON:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest test -i eth0 -t throughput -o json --output-file results.json
.RE
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Test completed successfully, all criteria passed.
.TP
.B 1
Test completed but failed one or more criteria.
.TP
.B 2
Error occurred (configuration, permission, connectivity).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR seedtest (1),
.BR seedtest-reflect (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mustard Seed Networks <support@mustardseednetworks.com>
