.\" Seed Test Suite - Main Man Page
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Mustard Seed Networks. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH SEEDTEST 1 "December 2025" "Seed Test Suite 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
seedtest \- network testing and packet reflection tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seedtest
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Seed Test Suite
is a comprehensive network testing tool supporting RFC 2544, Y.1564, RFC 2889,
RFC 6349, Y.1731, MEF, and TSN testing methodologies.
.PP
The tool operates in two primary modes:
.TP
.B Reflector Mode
Provides high-performance packet reflection for network benchmarking.
Supports AF_PACKET, AF_XDP, and DPDK dataplanes.
.TP
.B Test Master Mode
Executes network performance tests against a reflector endpoint.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B reflect
Start packet reflector on specified interface. See
.BR seedtest-reflect (1).
.TP
.B test
Execute network performance tests. See
.BR seedtest-test (1).
.TP
.B web
Start web interface server. See
.BR seedtest-web (1).
.TP
.B license
Manage license activation. See
.BR seedtest-license (1).
.TP
.B help \fR[\fItopic\fR]
Display help for a topic. Topics include test names, categories, and commands.
.TP
.B tutorial \fR[\fIname\fR]
Display interactive tutorials. Available tutorials: quickstart, reflector, rfc2544, y1564, troubleshoot, results.
.TP
.B glossary \fR[\fIterm\fR]
Look up network testing terminology.
.TP
.B version
Display version information.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-simple
Use simplified explanations suitable for non-technical users.
.SH SUPPORTED TESTS
.SS RFC 2544 Tests
.TP
.B throughput
Maximum forwarding rate with zero packet loss.
.TP
.B latency
Round-trip delay at specified load.
.TP
.B frame_loss
Packet loss rate across load percentages.
.TP
.B back_to_back
Maximum burst capacity.
.TP
.B system_recovery
Recovery time after overload.
.TP
.B reset
Device reset recovery time.
.SS Y.1564 Tests
.TP
.B y1564_config
Service configuration validation at 25/50/75/100% CIR.
.TP
.B y1564_performance
Extended duration service performance test.
.TP
.B y1564_full
Complete Service Activation Test.
.SS RFC 2889 Tests
.TP
.B forwarding
Switch forwarding rate across multiple ports.
.TP
.B address_cache
MAC address table capacity.
.TP
.B learning_rate
MAC address learning speed.
.TP
.B broadcast
Broadcast frame handling.
.TP
.B congestion
Congestion control behavior.
.SS RFC 6349 Tests
.TP
.B tcp_throughput
Real TCP throughput with BDP analysis.
.TP
.B path_analysis
Path characterization (RTT, bottleneck bandwidth).
.SS Y.1731 OAM Tests
.TP
.B frame_delay
Frame delay measurement (DMM/DMR).
.TP
.B y1731_frame_loss
Frame loss measurement (LMM/LMR).
.TP
.B synthetic_loss
Synthetic loss measurement (SLM/SLR).
.TP
.B loopback
Connectivity verification (LBM/LBR).
.SS MEF Tests
.TP
.B mef_config, mef_performance, mef_full
MEF service validation tests.
.SS TSN Tests
.TP
.B gate_timing
Time-Aware Shaper gate accuracy.
.TP
.B traffic_isolation
Traffic class isolation verification.
.TP
.B scheduled_latency
Deterministic latency validation.
.TP
.B tsn_full
Complete TSN validation suite.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start a packet reflector:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest reflect -i eth0
.RE
.fi
.PP
Run a throughput test:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo seedtest test -i eth0 -t throughput
.RE
.fi
.PP
Get help on Y.1564 testing:
.PP
.nf
.RS
seedtest help y1564
.RE
.fi
.PP
Run the quickstart tutorial:
.PP
.nf
.RS
seedtest tutorial quickstart
.RE
.fi
.SH LICENSE
Seed Test Suite requires a valid license. Three tiers are available:
.TP
.B Reflector
Packet reflection only.
.TP
.B TestSuite
Full test suite (RFC 2544, Y.1564, etc.).
.TP
.B Enterprise
All features plus API and multi-user support.
.PP
Activate with:
.B seedtest license -k XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/seedtest/license.key
License key storage.
.TP
.I ~/.seedtest/config.yaml
User configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR seedtest-reflect (1),
.BR seedtest-test (1),
.BR seedtest-web (1),
.BR seedtest-license (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mustard Seed Networks <support@mustardseednetworks.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 Mustard Seed Networks. All rights reserved.
